Cape Town - Every weekend about 5 000 people step into what used to be an old fish packing factory in Hout Bay to shop, eat, drink and be entertained with live music. The Bay Harbour Market has more than 100 traders whose backgrounds are as diverse as the goods they offer.Christian Kindersley was a partner in an investment firm in London for 30 years before deciding he needed a break.He now helps his girlfriend, Linda McKeever, make soup. I came to help her for an hour one day and have been here for four years, he says.McKeever, whose business is called ZOOP! says her best seller is spicy coconut chicken with rice noodles, sprouts, coriander and fresh lime. In summer she makes Gazpacho and Borscht.Fashion designer Allan Maritz spent seven years designing the kit worn by the Springboks. He was contracted by SA Rugby to develop their on and off field gear and worked with Nike to develop the tighter fitting gear, which the Bokke wore when they won the World Cup in 2007.He and his girlfriend, Nikki Swing, now design clothes for their stall, called Swing.Maritz said people from all over the world visited the market. People love the music, the bar, the kids area it s a huge attraction for tourists. The best part is the entertainment. It s not like a mall, which feels quite clinical. He said what he loved most about working at the market was the relaxed environment. You don t have high rentals like in a shop or have to employ lots of people. Bon Amie serves things like gemsbok patty, gluten-free chickpea burgers and a variety of breakfasts, including vegetarian options such as French toast.It is run by UK musician John Peate who moved to Hout Bay three years ago with his wife Julie.The couple had an eatery on the promenade in Blackpool which Julie ran, while Peate played the piano at night.When he moved to South Africa he got involved with the Kronendal Music Academy, which focuses on providing musical education to the under-privileged in Hout Bay. Later, he heard about the market where he now sometimes plays the piano.The market also has a range of hand-crafted jewellery, craft beer, pizza, sushi, home-made ice-cream and excellent coffee.Max Nerf started selling coffee after becoming frustrated at not find a consistently good quality coffee in Cape Town.Judging by the queue at his stall ZA Caf&eacute;, his blend of Brazilian, Ethiopian and Gautemalan beans, called Crema, hits the spot. Nerf says a friend blends and roasts it, while his pastry chef makes anything from traditional French croissants to Greek spanakopita and ladu, which is fudge made out of chickpeas. We try to keep everything authentic, Nerf says. The world is becoming more sterile but coming to the market is like going on a mini-holiday. Margrace Masawi, from Zimbabwe, used to trade on the beach selling her knitted toy animals made out of 100 percent cotton until she heard about the market and applied for a stall. She also makes cute dog jerseys out of wool.Artist Phinias Chirubvu, also from Zimbabwe, uses a chisel and hammer to write on anything from granite to sandstone and marble. He has made company logos for some of the Western Cape s top wine farms and also works closely with architects.He received training from Belgian artist and stone carver Maud Bekaert when she conducted workshops in South Africa.Chirubvu, who has a studio in Khayelitsha, said having a good eye and lots of patience were important. Once you have made a name for yourself and people get to know you then you get business via word of mouth. David Catlin was manning his son John s stall which had an array of interesting items, including a Mandela face made out of six layers of Perspex to make a spectacular 3D image. Lawrence Stevenson, who used to be an advertising copywriter, sells products made by unemployed women, including bags and ceramics. One of the NGOs he supports is called Spaza Intshiba which employs 21 women in Bredasdorp who make homeware products. Our story is about celebrating the vibrancy of township life, Stevenson says. The Bay Harbour Market was started by two friends, Paul Rutzen and Anthony Stroebel, in July 2011.Stroebel describes the market as an eclectic celebration of South African creativity, culture and kos . The intention was to provide an opportunity for the social integration of the diverse range of cultures that make up the Hout Bay community, while also serving as a catalyst for social development and job creation in the Hangberg precinct, Stroebel says.He says it has great energy. It is a happy place a place where you can be your authentic self no airs and graces and let your hair down in a social environment with your friends. It s also safe. Operations manager Mike Rigg said there is 24-hour security, with armed response and cameras. People were sceptical initially about the site but we have hardly had any incidents. Ronelle Williams, from Hangberg, employs a team responsible for cleaning and recycling. I ve been here from the beginning. It s my bread and butter. * The market is at 31 Harbour Road, Hout Bay. It is open on Fridays 5pm to 9pm and Saturdays and Sundays from 9.30am to 4pm.Cape Argus