Cape Town - The public gallery of courtroom B at the Simon s Town Magistrate s Court was packed and buzzing with anticipation on day as two SA Navy staff members appeared for allegedly attacking cyclists and pedestrians with a sjambok.Musa Kheswa, 26, and Johannes Horn, 24, have been charged with seven counts of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm for complaints laid at the Simon s Town and Fish Hoek police stations on Saturday. The court heard that the two men were not from the Western Cape when magistrate Crystal Mckenna said the only ties they had to the province were their jobs at the Simon s Town navy base.The attacks made headlines in the Cape Argus earlier this week when cyclists who were riding on Blackhill in Simon s Town on Saturday morning came forward about their attack at the hands of the occupants of a silver VW Polo.The Cape Argus was in possession of photos showing at least two of the cyclists with wounds as a result of the attack. Stellenbosch professor William Ferris, 52, had been lashed across his back while another 40-year-old cyclist, who declined to be named, suffered a cut on the chin.The charge sheet confirmed on Wednesday that the seven incidents occurred on a 10km stretch of road between Main Road in Kalk Bay and Blackhill in Simon s Town. Prosecutor Dalin Buchner revealed in court that Horn had wielded the sjambok while Kheswa drove the car. Friends and family of the accused crowded the courtroom in a show of solidarity. Throughout proceedings, a woman believed to be a supporter of the accused, hurled insults and threats at the media after the court permitted photos of the accused to be taken. She said: I will hunt them down until my dying day, when my husband was killed where was the media? I will take your hair and tie it around your neck, missy. The woman was reprimanded. Horn shielded his face from the media while Kheswa dressed in a black tracksuit top and jeans stood with his hands folded behind his back and kept his eyes focused on the magistrate.During Buchner s argument against the men being granted bail, it was revealed that the two men were staying at the Simon s Town navy barracks before they were arrested on Monday. There seemed to be a dispute about a letter that proclaimed that the navy no longer wanted the men to reside at the barracks. Their lawyers then supplied the court with alternative addresses which they obtained from the accused s supporters in the courtroom. As a result, the State could not verify the addresses in Pelican Heights and Muizenberg supplied by the defence at short notice. It was also established by the magistrate that the men were not a flight risk or an immediate threat. Horn s legal aid attorney, Kyle Jason, and Kheswa s attorney, Reza Adam, argued that their clients had no previous convictions or pending cases against them, saying it would be in the interest of justice that their clients be released on bail. The magistrate said both parties had to take into account that the charges against the accused were serious before she postponed the matter until Friday. The postponement was granted to allow the State time to confirm the alternative addresses provided by the defence.The men will remain in police custody until their next court appearance. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus