Cape Town - A senior traffic chief in the city is facing disciplinary action for allegedly driving an unlicensed car a car he parked at the traffic department in full view of his colleagues.Paul Oliver, the traffic chief for the city s west region, has been seen driving a blue Mercedes-Benz C-Class to and from work, despite the vehicle s licence having expired on 28 February.Acting on a tip-off, a team from the Cape Argus staked out the Gallows Hill traffic department last week, and spotted the unlicensed vehicle, with the expired disc still attached to the windscreen, parked in the staff parking bay at the back of the building.The city s executive director of safety and security, Richard Bosman, confirmed that the city was probing the matter and that the manager was found to be driving a car without a valid licence. The city initiated action against Oliver after the Cape Argus made enquiries about the allegations.ADMIN MARKThe ownership of the vehicle has also come into question after a source in the traffic department claimed that it was not registered in the name of Oliver or his wife. It appears the car is not his but belongs to someone else. The reason a licence could not be taken out on the vehicle is apparently because there was an admin mark on it which means there are outstanding warrants under the rightful owner s name, another official said.Traffic officers at Gallows Hill confirmed&nbsp;that Oliver had been driving the vehicle well after the licence s expiry date.&nbsp;Bosman said the vehicle s licence had expired. As per normal a fine was issued to the person in question on 4 September 2015, to the value of R500,&quot; he said. &quot;The city takes the allegations very seriously and further investigation is under way. The outcome will determine further action, including disciplinary procedure if necessary. Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said the traffic department issued a fine as soon as the matter was reported and was also initiating disciplinary proceedings. We have an excellent track record with discipline and this case is no exception,&quot; Smith said. &quot;We acted as soon as we were made aware of the situation. Oliver should set an example as someone responsible for upholding the law. Oliver oversees traffic operations in the city s area west, which includes Sea Point, Camps Bay, Clifton, Hout Bay and Fish Hoek.OLIVER 'PAID BACK THE MONEY'The Cape Argus can also reveal that Oliver had previously been accused of using city vehicles to get to and from work when in fact he was being paid a fixed car allowance in terms of which he had to provide his own transport to get to work and back home.Bosman confirmed that in that case Oliver pleaded guilty and paid back the money .He added that Oliver had informed him that he had returned the car to its owner and would be reimbursed for the private sale.According to traffic officers, they were asked to pick Oliver up at home and drop him at work using city vehicles.Oliver referred requests for comment to the City of Cape Town.Cape Argus Follow IOL Motoring on Twitter