Cape Town - Imizamo Yethu residents came out in force on Wednesday to pose questions to the deputy minister of police, Makhotso Sotyu, and provincial police management.The area has been ravaged by violence and crime recently, which led residents to march to the police station to hand over a memorandum of grievances.Ocean View residents were also represented by community leaders after they too marched to their police station to express their dissatisfaction over crime.&nbsp;Ncedo Ndongeni, of Imizamo Yethu, said crime had increased in their community. Just recently a member in our congregation was robbed by someone who was dressed as a police officer, and we are supposed to trust police. If the robber was not a police officer how did he manage to get police uniform? she asked.Fellow resident Yanga Gxathisa said illegal shebeens were the source of crime. Shebeens here operate 24 hours and the owners sell alcohol to underage youths who commit all sorts of crimes when they are drunk. Nontembiso Madikane, from Masiphumelele, said: Ocean View police are no help to us because when we report a crime they never pitch. We know we don t have enough police officers to be all over the place, but the least they could do is show their faces, even if it s after the crime. Sotyu said the complaints made by the communities were genuine. It s obvious that we need to get a satellite station in this area and in that regard the City of Cape Town has identified land for us to have one. We must recognise that crime prevention will be effective if our communities are mobilised and organised, to make it difficult for criminals to reside in our midst. We must then start with the overhauling of our own family relations to effect an active citizenry against crime, abuse and violence. But resident Miriam Mdoda, from Imizamo Yethu, said all they heard from Sotyu were promises. It s good that they came and listened to our problems, but now it s up to them to do something about it. And we as a community will do our part to work with the police. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus