Cape Town - Less than a week after South Africa honoured 58 police officers who were killed this year, a Western Cape High Court handed down a life sentence to a cop killer.Siphiwo Zondani, 38, was sentenced to life in prison for the murder of Detective Constable Mthetheleli Shephard Gunya and the attempted murder of Constable Vuyolwethu Mantashe.Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk said Zondani had shot Gunya dead and shot at Mantashe in Nyanga last October. The two members, accompanied by Sergeant Mruyisi Booi, went to New Flats in Nyanga to look for a suspect in an unrelated matter. The suspect was found and the deceased (Gunya) arrested the suspect. While the deceased was busy with the arrest, the accused, a friend of the suspect, fired several shots at the deceased and killed him, Van Wyk said. Zondani and the suspect fled the scene. Zondani fired several shots at Constable Mantashe as he ran away. Constable Gunya was declared dead at the scene after he suffered a gunshot (wound) to the head. At a memorial for fallen police officers at the weekend, President Jacob Zuma said: A total of 58 police officers have been killed since January this year, 27 on duty and 31 off duty. Even the death of one police officer would be one too many and would be unacceptable. Zuma said police required the support of the state to ensure that they were strengthened and fortified to be able to respond to crime head-on , to protect not only themselves, but the nation as a whole. I have directed the minister of police to do everything possible to provide the police with the tools they need to fight crime effectively and to protect themselves. Zuma said a national tactical response plan had been developed to immediately respond effectively to the murders of police.The DA s shadow minister of justice, Glynnis Breytenbach, said as a party they condemn police killings. We condemn police killings, and any other killings, for that matter. Police are supposed to serve and protect us, but they are vulnerable because they wear uniforms and don t have anywhere to hide. In addition to the life sentence for the murder, Judge Elize Steyn sentenced Zondani to 10 years for the attempted murder of Matashe and five years for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition.The sentences would run concurrently. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus