Cape Town - A petrol attendant who works in Kenwyn on Tuesday received a new instrument to pursue his passion as a trumpeter thanks to a generous Cape Argus reader.Richard Taliwe, a 35-year-old father-of-three from Philippi, was surprised when he received a trumpet worth in excess of R2 000 donated by a good Samaritan from Rondebosch who sympathised with his plight.The good Samaritan has asked not to be named.Taliwe had been practising his craft with the Old Apostolic Church band in Philippi where he said he praised God through his music .The struggling musician had fallen in love with the trumpet when he was a little boy, playing in the church pews as his mother worshipped.A few years later, he decided to form a 30-member brass band to encourage the youth in the area to ignore the lure of crime and drugs and worship the Lord through music . When you like playing the trumpet, it s passion. It is in my blood. That is why I wanted to have my own brass band, he said.Taliwe said he was forced to rent a trumpet for R150 each Thursday when his band met for practice.He said his days were numbered as a musician and he felt he needed to swop his passion for those he cared for.Taliwe is the breadwinner for his family. He takes care of his 30-year-old wife, Neliwe Taliwe, three kids aged 10, 6, and 3 and his elderly parents, both over the age of 60.The attendant works a 12-hour shift at the BP garage on the corners of Rosmead Avenue and Wetton Road to make ends meet, using three taxis from Philippi to Kenwyn each day. The round trip costs him R60.This did not deter Taliwe from giving advice to the kids in his neighbourhood. The people must join a brass band and leave a legacy. It will take you away from drugs and change your life totally, he said.In a letter sent to the Cape Argus earlier this month ( Donation needed for a joyful noise , September 3), an appeal was made by city councillor Mark Kleinschmidt for donations to help Taliwe and his church.Kleinschmidt said: I normally come in at five in the morning, and here s Richard, doing the night shift. We wanted to assess the immediate needs of the church band and donate to them. Kleinschmidt s plea attracted donations from concerned residents in Cape Town who donated cash and Taliwe s new trumpet.The owner of the garage, Hayden Gordon, described Taliwe as a polite, humble and happy individual: You can t get better than Taliwe. In fact, all of my staff are dedicated, on time and always have a smile on their faces. Cape Argus